All right, let's hook it up
to our actual GraphQL API.
If we go to our backend here
and we go to our API Explorer.
Let's first figure out
what mutation we actually need in order for it to work.
So I'm gonna open up yet another tab here.
We'll say mutation.
And then basically we just type, create.
And you can see a listing
of all the create mutations we have.
In our case, it's create product.
There's also create products for multiple.
And you can see here, the only difference
is that the type here is an array of products,
whereas this is just a type of product.
So we'll use create product.
The way that it works is that
you open up your curly brackets here
and you pass in the data.
And then for the data, it just asks for the name.
Let's just call it the sample product.
And let's say, description is testing.
And what else does it need?
The photo.
The photo we're not gonna be able to do
'cause there is no file upload built in here.
The whole file upload thing in GraphQL,
there's not a standard on how to do it.
So you're not gonna see any support for that
in this GraphQL playground.
And that's the reason why we've,
if we open up our with data, that's the reason
why we went with this Apollo upload client,
because it bakes it in for us.
So we can just throw it a file
and it'll be able to handle it for us.
The other thing we want is the price.
So that's what you pass as an argument to the function.
And then from that, you simply ask for the return data,
where you say, "Okay, go and make this.
And then when you done making it, bring me back,
ID, the price, the description.
Bring me back the actual data from the database."
Most likely we want the actual ID of the item.
And now if we run this,
I'm not sure if it's going to work or not.
We'll go ahead and try.
There we go, it worked.
And I believe now, if we go to our products here,
there's our sample product.
And you'll see it's in draft state.
We can also run it again and say,
the status is going to be...
What was the...?
Available.
Now run that.
Okay, we made another product.
Back to our products here, there it is.
And it's in available state.
So that's what we're going to be doing,
but we're going to do it
with the data that comes from the form
instead of manually running it here.
So let's just delete those two suckers
'cause I don't need them.
So we'll go over here.
And above here, we gotta first make our mutation.
So we'll say const create product mutation
is equal to gql.
And we'll auto-import that.
So that gets imported from GraphQL tag.
And then in here, you can just take this
and paste it in here.
And then we can go
and we need to make it a little bit further.
So we need to give it a name.
And that's because the create product mutation
is going to be taking variables.
So here we're hard coding it
but we need to make this a flexible mutation
meaning that we can pass in dynamic data,
known as variables in GraphQL.
So I like to just name them the same thing,
create product mutation.
And then inside of here
is where we define which variables get passed in.
So we can leave a little comment, say,
"Which variables are getting passed in
and what types are they?"
So we're expecting somebody to pass us in a name variable,
which is a string, and we'll put a bang on the end.
And that's how in GraphQL you tell it
if something is required.
So we'll say description is going to be a string
that is required.
We have a price that's coming in,
that is an integer, that is required.
So that's why we are, remember in our use form hook
we're converting it from a string to a number.
That's because if you try
to send a price of like a hundred as a string,
it's going to yell at you and be like,
"Hey, we need an integer, not a string."
And then we want a image, which is a type of upload.
And I'm not going to put an exclamation on there
'cause it's possible to upload them without an image.
Then we go here and we're able to use
these variables, that we've created here,
we were able to use them
in our actual create product mutation.
So we go here, data.
And try your hardest not to think of this as JavaScript,
because this is GraphQL notation
and you can't really
use JavaScript variables inside of here.
You can because it's a string,
and I'll show you how to do that later,
but generally you should try to stick
with keeping it a nice clean GraphQL mutation.
And that will allow us to test it and move it around
and make it flexible as possible.
So the name being passed in
is going to be our name variable.
The description being passed in
is obviously our description variable.
The price is obviously the price.
The status will be,
let's leave that as just hard-coded available.
I know that we set it as draft as default
but if somebody's uploading it,
not from the back end but from the front end,
let's default that to status.
And we can do that just by doing that.
And then the last one is the photo, right?
Because we're bringing in this image variable here
and we need to create a photo.
But we have a little bit of a dilemma here
because a photo is not simply just a field.
Remember when we created our backend,
photo was its own type?
If we look at our mutation here, we could run it.
We say create product image, right?
The product image is not a product,
it's its own type where there's a relationship.
So you might think, okay,
when we submit this thing
do we first have to create the product image,
wait for it to come back,
get the ID of that, and then submit it?
And answer to that is, no.
You can actually do nested creates
and link them as a relationship all from one query.
And this is specific to KeystoneJS,
although this is a very popular thing in lots of CMS.
So we'll set the photo to, create is the actual name.
We're going to say, go ahead and create.
And that has an image field, which is our image variable.
And alt text is going to be,
we could say the name or the description of both.
So what this will do is, it'll say the photo is,
oh, go ahead and create a relationship here.
But also create the item behind the scenes
and then use the image and the alt text for that.
And then when we're done here, we'll ask for the ID,
the price, the description.
We want the name and then we want the photo.
We actually don't need the photo.
All we really need is the ID
because what we're going to be doing here
is that when somebody uploads something
we're just going to move them over
to the individual page for that image.
So we really just need the ID here.
I'm gonna keep price, description, name on there
just so I can show you what comes back from this mutation.
All right.
So that's that.
That's our actual mutation that we just wrote out there.
Now, in order to hook it up inside of this onsubmit,
we need to use the use mutation hook
inside of our component.
So we'll say const,
and I'm just gonna call that payload for now.
We're going to come back
and destructure that sucker in just a second.
I'll say use mutation.
That is a method that comes from,
it just auto imported from Apollo client.
And use mutation takes,
the first argument is going to be the actual mutation,
create product mutation.
And then the second argument to use mutation
is any additional data that needs to come along.
In our case, we want to pass along some variables.
And the variables are going to be
everything that we have, image, name, price, description,
everything that we have in our inputs.
So we can simply just pass along the whole object
that is in our use form state, pass it along as a variable.
And that, because they're named accordingly,
that will then line up with these values right here.
Which will in turn be set on the backend
as these values right here.
Now what gets returned from using mutation is two things.
If we take a look at our...
What was it?
Was it products component here?
No, it wasn't that one.
It was...
It was indexjs,
which uses this one.
And we'll open up the default.
And then we have our all proudest query.
If we look at this one.
This is a query, right?
And what gets returned from use query,
we get the data, we get the error, and we get the loading.
Now we're gonna get all three of those things
as well from use mutation, but we get another value
which is the actual function
that will fire off the mutation, right?
So we'll go here and take this payload
and we're going to destructure it.
And it's an array that it returns.
The first thing that it returns is
create product.
So the first thing that returns
is the actual function that will run the mutation.
And then the second thing that it returns
is the same thing as the query.
We can have our loading state, our error state,
and any data that gets returned from the mutation.
So if we were to just console.log
the create product, we should see...
There we go,
function, run mutation, right?
This is a function that is bound to this whole mutation.
And when we run that sucker with the arguments
it will go off to the backend and run it for us.
Now it's an asynchronous function.
So we can then call it in our onsubmit function.
So let's go into this onsubmit.
First thing we need to do is we need to mark it as async,
and that will allow us to await this thing.
So it goes back to the backend then comes back.
And well, we can do this.
We'll say, submit the input fields to the backend.
So it's a const.
Response is equal to await create product.
Now here's something important.
This create product mutation function,
we have already preloaded it with our variables
and that is aware of that it's state and that it updates.
So you can either specify the variables
when you define the mutation,
if you know what they are at the time.
In our case we know that it's inputs.
However, you can also pass them right here
if you don't know them.
If you only know them at the time of submit
you can pass the variables right here.
And we could say, inputs.
Both work.
If you know them at the time of definition
then I like to stick them in the create product.
And that just keeps our little submit function
nice and tidy.
So we'll go here, console.log, the response.
And the other things that we wanna do up here
is the loading state and the error state.
So before we even submit anything
let's take care of those as well.
So we'll go to this field set here
and we'll say, disabled is equal to loading, right?
So if it is in loading state,
then go ahead and disable the entire form.
And then we, what was that other one?
Aria-busy is also going to be equal to loading.
So when we are in a loading state,
show them the little swoopy bar,
this thing will start moving,
and also disable all the form input.
So that takes care of our loading state.
The other state we need to do is error state, right?
If there's an error, we need to show the user.
So I've actually given you an error component here.
And what it does is, it just takes in the error,
checks what type of error there is,
and then will display it off to the user.
And we can use that
wherever we want to show the actual error.
So what we can do is, just right here above the field set,
we just say, error.
Which one is that?
What did we..?
Oh, it's error message.
Error message
We're gonna import that.
Oh, it didn't, it's not coming along.
Oh, you know why?
It's called display error.
It doesn't matter what you call it.
But for auto-importing to work,
whatever you named it in the default,
it needs to be auto-imported as that.
So that's another vote to using named exports
because then you don't have little goof ups like that.
And then you pass the error, prop as error.
And I really liked this because
there's no checking if there is an error
then go ahead and render it.
We simply render out the component, pass it the error.
And then internally to this, it will check.
Is there no error?
Or is there no error message, then return null,
and it'll just render out nothing, which is great.
Okay.
So we did a lot there.
Let's see where we're at.
I'm just going to give it a fresh...
No errors?
Come on!
That's amazing.
Let's go ahead and upload the Yeti photo, coral Yeti.
And these are the best coolers.
Ready?
Is it gonna work?
Let's just double check.
I'm console logging the response.
Here we go.
Boom.
You see it's disabled.
Came back.
Okay.
So a lot to unpack there.
We disabled all the inputs.
Good.
That's because we did the field set.
This little swoopy guy started turning.
I don't, what do you call that?
The loading indicator turned on.
There you go.
Then we awaited the create product.
And then we came back with the response
and we got this.
Data, open it up, create product.
And what came back?
An ID, a name, and a price.
So if we go into our backend here, refresh.
There it is.
And the image worked as well.
We should also be able to go to product images
and see, there it is.
There's the coral Yeti that's actually showing up.
And that's the first one that worked
because the rest of them are having that display error.
Which is not really a big issue.
But look at that.
It worked.
Let's double check that that error state
actually does work as well.
So let's just delete the name,
and name is required, and let's try to upload it.
And when we submit it,
it should not send a name to the backend.
It says, "Shoot.
You attempted to perform an invalid mutation."
You probably will get better error messages.
That doesn't specifically tell you
what went wrong in that case.
But in most cases it will give you
a bit of a better error message.
And that's awesome.
I bet the Keystone error messages
will get a little bit better over time as well.
But that just shows that we did indeed catch the error
and we are displaying it to the user.
Let's put that back so we don't screw it up,
there we go, there's our name.
Now, a couple other things.
When it is successfully done,
what we need to do is first we can just clear the form.
An that should clear everything on out.
Let's try upload something else now.
Boom.
So it came back and it cleared out all the inputs.
That's great.
Last thing I want to tell you is
this response right here,
when we console logged that response we had a data on it.
We also would get an error and loading attribute on that.
So the response that data is the same thing as this.
So you can either capture it in a variable
that is returned, or resolved, from this promise
or you could just access it
directly from this data attribute that is destructured.
And that's kind of the nice thing about React,
and Apollo in general, is that
even though these were created
long before somebody hit the submit button
they are reactive variables,
which allows us to always get
the most up-to-date and latest information.
So I'm going to take out the const response there.
And we can simply just await it.
And then, if we wanted to,
we could log them out inside of this onsubmit handler.
All right, so that's enough for that one.
In the next one we'll have to do
some refetching of our products queries
so that we'll be able to see them on the homepage.